= DeepTest

DeepTest enables tests to run in parallel using multiple processes.  Processes
may spawned locally to take advantage of multiple processors on a single
machine or distributed across many machines to take advantage of distributed
processing.

== Usage

In your Rakefile:

  require "rubygems"
  require "deep_test/rake_tasks"
  
  # sample DeepTest task

  DeepTest::TestTask.new "task_name" do |t|
    t.number_of_workers = 2   # optional, defaults to 2
    t.timeout_in_seconds = 30 # optional, defaults to 30
    t.server_port = 6969      # optional, defaults to 6969
    t.pattern = "test/**/*_test.rb"
    t.libs << "test" # may be necessary for Rails >= 2.1.x
  end

  # sample SpecTask using DeepTest

  Spec::Rake::SpecTask.new(:deep_spec) do |t|
    t.spec_files = FileList['spec/**/*_spec.rb']
    t.deep_test :number_of_workers => 2,   # optional, defaults to 2
                :timeout_in_seconds => 30, # optional, defaults to 30
                :server_port => 6969       # optional, defaults to 6969
  end


=== Specifying a Listener to be Notified of Events

In my_worker_listener.rb
  class MyWorkerListener
    def before_sync
    end

    def before_starting_workers
    end

    def starting(worker)
    end

    def starting_work(worker, work_unit)
    end

    def finished_work(worker, work_unit, result)
    end
  end

In your Rakefile

  DeepTest::TestTask.new "task_name" do |t|
    ... 
    t.worker_listener = "MyWorkerListener"
  end

An instance of MyWorkerListener will be created for each worker that is
started, and will receive events from that worker.  However, you must ensure
that the MyWorkerListener class is loaded at the time that the test files are
loaded, so it is available to be instantiated.  You can specify multiple
listener classes by separating them with a comma.  For more information about
when events are triggered, see the documentation at
DeepTest::NullWorkerListener.


=== Setting Up A New Database For Each Worker

By default, DeepTest will reinitialize ActiveRecord connections if ActiveRecord
is loaded when the workers are started.  This means all workers are running
against the same database.  You may want each worker to use a database
decidicated to it.  To facilitate this, DeepTest provides a worker listener to
help you.  If you're using Rails with Mysql, simply configure DeepTest as 
follows in your Rakefile:

  DeepTest::TestTask.new "task_name" do |t|
    ...
    t.worker_listener = "DeepTest::Database::MysqlSetupListener"
  end


Before spawning workers, DeepTest will dump the schema of the database for the
current Rails environment (usually test).  As each worker starts up, the
listener will create a database dedicated to that worker and load the schema
into it.  The database will be dropped when the worker process exits.  

If you're using Mysql but not using Rails, you'll have to create a subclass of
MysqlSetupListener and override +master_database_config+ and +dump_file_name+,
as the default implementations of these methods are Rails specific.


If you're using a database other than Mysql, read the documentation for
DeepTest::Database::SetupListener and create a new subclass for your database
type.  If you do this, please consider contributing your subclass back to the
project so that it can be included in later releases of DeepTest.

=== Distributing Tests Across Multiple Machines

In addition to running your tests in parallel, DeepTest can also distribute
them across multiple machines.  It does this by first mirroring the local
working copy that launched the tests on each machine that will be running tests.
Then workers are launched on each of the machines and consume tests in the same
fashion as when DeepTest is running locally.

==== Requirements

Before you can distribute tests, you must ensure that all the machines involved
(including the machine with the local working copy) have rsync installed for
mirroring working copies.  You must also have either SSH or an RSync daemon
exposing your local working copy running on the local development machine.  For
more information about rsync, visit the rsync
webpage[http://www.samba.org/rsync/].  Currently only passwordless access is
supported, so you must either setup your RSync daemon to be accessible without
a password or enable passwordless SSH access from the test machines to the
local development machine. DeepTest must also be installed as a gem on each
test machine and available either as a gem or in your project on the local
machine.

==== Starting a Test Server

On each test machine, execute the following:
  > deep_test test_server

This will launch a server providing mirroring and worker services.  By default,
2 workers will be launched for each set of tests run.  If you wish to change
the number of workers, simply specify the --number_of_workers option.  For
information about what options are available, use -h.  The test_server will
print out the uri it is bound to, druby://<hostname>:4022 by default.

==== Starting a Master Test Server

On a single machine (probably one of the test machines), execute this:
  > deep_test master_test_server <uris of test servers>

The master_test_server will also print it's binding uri,
druby://<hostname>:4021 by default.  It will also provide a webserver bound
to port 4020 that provides a status page summarizing the state of all the
test servers. 

==== Overriding the DRb uri for the Test Server or Master Test Server

The DRb url that the Test Server or Master Test Server should bind to can be
specified when the process is started.  Use the --uri option followed by the
DRb url that you would like DRb to bind to and return to clients.  By default,
DRb does not provide any capability to bind to all addresses but return a
specific IP or hostname as part of the DRb url for clients.  DeepTest provides
a special DRb protocol to enable this, drubyall.  If you wish your test server
to listen on all addresses (which you probably do), start the server
with a command like this (where deeptest1.local is the hostname of the machine):
  > deep_test test_server --uri drubyall://deeptest1.local/

The server will report that it is listening on druby://deeptest1.local as the
public DRb url, but it will actually accept connections on all addresses to
server requests.
 

==== Configuring Your Project

If you're using rsync over ssh, create a DeepTest test task similar to that
below in your Rakefile.

  DeepTest::TestTask.new "deep_test_distributed" do |t|
    t.pattern = "test/**/*_test.rb" # whatever is appropriate for your project
    t.distributed_server = <drb uri of master_test_server>
    t.sync_options = {
      :source => <absolute path of project root on machine>,
      :username => "username"
    }
  end

The :source entry in sync_options can be easily calculated based on the value
of \_\_FILE__ when defining the task.  :username will be used by rsync to ssh
back to the local machine and mirror the working copy.

If you have an rsync daemon running in your local machine, configure the
rake task as follows.

  DeepTest::TestTask.new "deep_test_distributed" do |t|
    t.pattern = "test/**/*_test.rb" # whatever is appropriate for your project
    t.distributed_server = <drb uri of master_test_server>
    t.sync_options = {
      :source => <name of rsync module from daemon configuration>,
      :daemon => true,
      :username => "username"
    }
  end


Username is optional in both cases.  You'll need to either setup passwordless
ssh access or run an rsync daemon that doesn't require passwords.

There may be other options you'd like to pass to rsync in your particular
scenario.  This can be done by adding an :rsync_options entry to sync_options.
For example, if you're working on a Rails project you'll probably want to at
least have something like this:

  DeepTest::TestTask.new "deep_test_distributed" do |t|
    ...
    excludes = %w[.svn tmp/** log/**]
    t.sync_options = {
      ...
      :rsync_options => excludes.map {|s| "'--exclude=#{s}'"}.join(' ')
    }
  end

That way you can avoid spending any time mirroring tmp and log files that don't
have any effect on the tests.  If you are running distributed tests against a
database, consult the section above about creating a new database for each
worker to see how to configure DeepTest for your project.  

Any number of projects can be run using the same test servers, as long as
they're all using the same version of Ruby and DeepTest.  

== Contributors

* anonymous z
* Alex Chaffee
* Dan[http://www.dcmanges.com/blog] Manges[http://www.dcmanges.com/blog]
* David[http://davidvollbracht.com/] Vollbracht[http://davidvollbracht.com/]
* Brian[http://blog.brianguthrie.com/] Guthrie[http://blog.brianguthrie.com/]
* Shane[http://shanel.tumblr.com/] Liebling[http://shanel.tumblr.com/]
* Scott Taylor

== License

DeepTest Released under Ruby's[http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/LICENSE.txt] license[http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/LICENSE.txt]
